# Artifactle

### Description:

Artifactle is web-based game styled in the likes of popular daily guessing games. In it, you are initially presented with a picture of an artifact(an old object selected for it's historical or artistic significance) and tasked with guessing which country it is originally from. Upon each successive incorrect guess, more information about the artifact is revealed to you, including the title, year, materials, and description of the artifact, as well as how close your guessed country was in kilometers to the correct country. This continues until you run out of guesses(5) or correctly guess the country. This proceeds for 3 rounds in total, whereafter you are shown your score based on how many times you correctly guessed an artifact's country.

Artifactle is built using Django as the back and front-end, and utilizes a combination of JavaScript, Python, HTML, and CSS. The entire project is built using only one Django app. There are Django models used to represent Artifacts, Museums, Countries, and the Game itself. Each game consists of a date and three artifacts. Each artifact consists of a name, year, description, materials, country, museum, artist, and image. Each country consists of a name, code, latitude, and longitude. Each museum consists of a name, address, and website url. The museum and country models are utilized as foreign keys in the artifact model, and the artifact model is used as a foreign key in the game model. This increases the ability to move between these models in the JavaScript and HTML code.

All game logic is contained in the index.html page, this is because of the limitations of importing using Django variable syntax in a separate JavaScript file. Upon loading the page, a game object is loaded, from which multiple artifact objects are also loaded. In addition, a list of all countries is loaded as well as the current date (using the datetime module). The app initially checks if the current date is equal to the date saved in the local storage, and if it is not, it resets the game and all stored variables. If it is the same, the game will check locally stored variables and update the game state accordingly, making it so that progress in the game (round, guesses, score) will be saved if the tab is closed or refreshed.

After a state check, the game object is used to set the artifacts for the day's game. After the player opens the select menu and makes a guess by choosing a country, the guessed country's latitude and longitude are plugged into the Haversine formula, along with the correct country's latitude and longitude, in order to calculate the distance between them accounting for the earth's shape. Depending on this closeness of the distance, a color is selected and then the guess and distance(in km) is displayed at the bottom of the screen. Additionally, if the guess is incorrect, a piece of information about the artifact will be revealed in the "placard". If the guess is correct, or if the player has used all of their guesses, all of the artifact information will be revealed and then the player will be presented with a next round button to proceed to the next artifact. When the next round button is selected, the display of guesses will be cleared and hidden and the default display for the next artifact in the game will be shown. After this repeats 3 times, the player is presented with the "exhibit completed" text, along with their score, being the number of correctly guessed countries.

The inspiration behind styling the website was the look and feel of an actual museum exhibit, with clean, sharp lines and formal sans-serif font. The main display is meant to evoke a museum placard that displays information for each artifact, with black text on a white background and non-rounded corners. A fade in effect is used when guesses are made and further information is revealed.

Further refinements to be made at a later time include a log in system (ability to track one's scores), an archive of past games (where all past games may be playable and their own states would be saved in a database table for each user), a more in-depth scoring system (where incorrect guesses may yield more points based on proximity to correct country), achievements to be earned, and a side menu to access these features.
